WI #615: `Invoice ID` definition and supporting content (#686)
FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec: specification/columns/invoiceid.md

# Invoice ID

> An Invoice ID is a provider-assigned identifier for invoices and usage charges in the billing period the invoice was generated. Invoices are commonly used for scenarios like tracking billing transactions, facilitating payment processes and for permforming invoice reconcilliation between usage and invoice months. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An Invoice ID is a provider-assigned identifier for an invoice encapsulating and some or all charges in the corresponding billing period. Invoices are commonly used for scenarios like tracking billing transactions, facilitating payment processes and for performing invoice reconciliation between usage and invoice months. 
```
Few changes, let me know your thoughts:

1. Invoice ID represents 1 invoice, not multiple?
2. Not just usage charges, but all charges
3. Spelling corrections

Author: removed, "and" between encapsulating and some. Otherwise I like the statement @cnharris10

The Invoice ID column adheres to the following requirements:

* The Invoice ID column MUST be present in a [*FOCUS dataset*](#glossary:FOCUS-dataset).

> * This column MUST be of type String and SHOULD be null if a provider does not pre-generate invoice ID's. Where a provider pre-generates an invoice ID the column MUST NOT contain null.

Reviewer: Doesn't this make it a conditional column and so it MUST not be present?

Reviewer 2: I don't read it as such. It should be present, should be string

Should be null if an invoice ID is not associated with the line item.
Should NOT be null when an invoice ID is associated with the line item.

Author: Update to this:

- Invoice ID column MUST be present in the dataset and MAY be null
- Invoice ID MUST be of type string
- When Invoice ID is not associated with a line item, invoice ID MUST be null 
- When Invoice ID is associated with a line item, invoice ID MUST NOT be null
- An invoice ID MAY be generated prior to an invoice being issued and MUST be associated with line items linked to the pre-generated invoice
- Invoice ID MUST be a globally unique identifier within a provider.

> * Invoice ID MUST be a globally unique identifier within a provider.

Reviewer 3: Nit: Seems like this is a little too strong. Doesn't have to be globally unique or unique for the customer right?

Author: new updates have been made to this and just committed

# Invoice ID

> An Invoice ID is a provider-assigned identifier for an invoice encapsulating some or all charges in the corresponding billing period. Invoices are commonly used for scenarios like tracking billing transactions, facilitating payment processes and for performing invoice reconciliation between usage and invoice months. 

Reviewer 4: - I think we should also mention the billing account here.
- Maybe we should leave out the part 'between usage and invoice months' and just mention invoice reconciliation, like we did in some other columns.
  - 'Invoice months' suggests monthly billing intervals, and that’s not always the case.
  - We’ve generally avoided using the term 'usage' since it’s just one of the charge categories.

```suggestion
An Invoice ID is a provider-assigned identifier for an invoice encapsulating some or all charges in the corresponding [*billing period*](#glossary:billing-period) for a given [*billing account](#glossary:billing-account). Invoices are commonly used for scenarios like tracking billing transactions, facilitating payment processes and for performing invoice reconciliation between usage and invoice months. 
```

The Invoice ID column adheres to the following requirements:

* The Invoice ID column SHOULD be present in a [*FOCUS dataset*](#glossary:FOCUS-dataset) and MAY be null.
* Invoice ID MUST be of type string

> * When Invoice ID is not associated with a line item, invoice ID MUST be null

Author: ```suggestion
* When an Invoice ID is not associated with a line item, invoice ID MUST be null
```

> * When Invoice ID is associated with a line item, invoice ID MUST NOT be null

Author: ```suggestion
* When an Invoice ID is associated with a line item, invoice ID MUST NOT be null
```

> * An invoice ID MAY be generated prior to an invoice being issued and MUST be associated with line items linked to the pre-generated invoice

Author: I prefer this:
 * InvoiceId MAY be generated prior to an invoice being issued
 * Where a pre-generated Invoice or provisional invoice exists, it MUST be associated with the related *charge* and billingaccountId

> * An invoice ID MAY be generated prior to an invoice being issued and MUST be associated with line items linked to the pre-generated invoice

Reviewer 4: Resolving in favor of Graham's suggestion

# Invoice ID

An Invoice ID is a provider-assigned identifier for an invoice encapsulating some or all charges in the corresponding [*billing period*](#glossary:billing-period) for a given [*billing account](#glossary:billing-account). Invoices are commonly used for scenarios like tracking billing transactions, facilitating payment processes and for performing invoice reconciliation between usage and invoice months. 

The Invoice ID column adheres to the following requirements:

* InvoiceId is RECOMMENDED to be present in a [*FOCUS dataset*](#glossary:FOCUS-dataset).
* InvoiceId MUST be of type String.
* InvoiceId MUST conform to [String Handling](#stringhandling) requirements.
* InvoiceId MUST be null when the [*charge*](#glossary:charge) is not associated either with an issued invoice or with a pre-generated provisional invoice.
* InvoiceId MUST NOT be null when the *charge* is associated with either an issued invoice or a pre-generated provisional invoice.
* InvoiceId MUST be associated with one and only one [BillingAccountId](#billingaccountid) within a customer.

> * An invoice ID MAY be generated prior to an invoice being issued and MUST be associated with line items linked to the pre-generated invoice

Author: ```suggestion
* InvoiceId MAY be generated prior to an invoice being issued
* Where a pre-generated Invoice or provisional invoice exists, it MUST be associated with the related charge and billingaccountId
```

# Invoice ID

An Invoice ID is a provider-assigned identifier for an invoice encapsulating some or all charges in the corresponding [*billing period*](#glossary:billing-period) for a given [*billing account*](#glossary:billing-account). Invoices are commonly used for scenarios like tracking billing transactions, facilitating payment processes and for performing invoice reconciliation between charges and billing periods. 

The Invoice ID column adheres to the following requirements:

* InvoiceId is RECOMMENDED to be present in a [*FOCUS dataset*](#glossary:FOCUS-dataset).
* InvoiceId MUST be of type String.
* InvoiceId MUST conform to [String Handling](#stringhandling) requirements.

> * InvoiceId MUST be null when the [*charge*](#glossary:charge) is not associated either with an issued invoice or with a pre-generated provisional invoice.

Reviewer 5: I think it's implied it will be issued, so unsure if adding `issued` helps.  If we put `issued` we should put `to be issued` indicating that there will be an invoice coming?

* InvoiceId MUST NOT be null when the *charge* is associated with either an issued invoice or a pre-generated provisional invoice.

> * InvoiceId MUST be associated with one and only one [BillingAccountId](#billingaccountid) within a customer.

Author: ```suggestion

```

Author: @flanakin this is the proposed change.

* InvoiceId MAY be generated prior to an invoice being issued.
* Where a pre-generated invoice or provisional invoice exists, it MUST be associated with the related charge and billingaccountId.

> 

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
> Editor's Note: 
```

> > Editor's Note: 

Author: ```suggestion
> Editor's Note: The group agrees the construct of the column is suitable to go for approval, however it requires some further definition to clarify credit handling. The group will determine if this should be in the column definition or supporting content.
```
